# Range Scan Continue (0xDB)

Requests that the server continues an existing range scan, returning to the
client a sequence of keys or documents. The client can limit how many documents
are returned and/or how much time the continue request can run for.
Alternatively in throttled environments the server may limit how many keys or
documents are returned, which could be less than the client requested limit.

The request:
* Must contain extras
* No key
* No value

Note that each continue request always returns at least 1 key/document unless:

* The scan reaches the end
* An server "error" occurs

The client is responsible for progressing the scan by issuing new continue
requests until the server indicates the scan has reached the end. Note that
if the connection which requested the continue becomes disconnected for any
reasons whilst the scan is progressing the server policy is to cancel the
range-scan as there is no mechanism for safely resuming the existing scan.
A client should create a new scan using their last received key as the start
point.

The command uses an extras section to describe the input parameters.

## Extra definition

The extras for a continue range scan encodes:

* 128-bit uuid identifying the scan (obtained from range-scan-create)
* Maximum key/document count to return (when 0 there is no limit)
* Maximum time (ms) for the scan to keep returning key/documents (when 0 there
  is no time limit)
* Bytes to return (when 0 there is no limit). Note the response will always include
  whole keys or documents, thus even with a byte limit in place the client
  must be prepared to receive at least one document or key that could exceed the
  value of this field. E.g. A value of 1 can result in a payload of 20MB
  (assuming 20MB is the maximum document size).

```
     Byte/     0       |       1       |       2       |       3       |
        /              |               |               |               |
       |0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      0| scan identifier                                               |
       +                                                               +
      4|                                                               |
       +                                                               +
      8|                                                               |
       +                                                               +
     12|                                                               |
       +                                                               +
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     16| item limit (network byte order)                               |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     20| time limit (network byte order)                               |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     24| byte limit (network byte order)                               |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
       Total 28bytes
```

## Response format

A successful continue will trigger the server to iterate forwards through the
range of keys and return keys/documents using a bulk framing.

The many keys/documents of a single continue maybe sent using multiple responses.
A final response uses a bespoke range-scan status code to indicate the end of the
individual range-scan-continue or that the scan has completed.

Each response generated by the range-scan-continue may contain a value which
encodes multiple keys or documents, the formatting of which is described
in the following sections. Note that each response will also be given an extras
section, which is defined in a following section.

A batch of keys or documents always begins with the standard mcbp 24-byte response
header which will include a "success" status, extras and a value. It is the value
that contains the keys or documents.

The following examples intend to highlight how the responses from a range-scan-continue work.

For example a range covers an unknown number of keys and the client only
wants to handle up to 500 keys per range-scan-continue. Thus the client would
first issue a range-scan-continue (0xDB) with:

* the uuid from range-scan-create (0xDA)
* item limit set to 500
* time limit set to 0
* byte limit set to 0

The server will respond with a series of responses. Clients must note that there
is no definition of how many keys or documents each response may include.

Example 1: A continue hits a limit and indicates that another continue is
required because more keys or documents maybe available.

* response status=success, bodylen=261
* response status=success, bodylen=259
* response status=success, bodylen=260
* response status=range-scan-more (0xA6), bodylen=241

In this sequence 500 keys are distributed over 4 different responses. The final
response has the status of range-scan-more informing the client that the scan
could have more data.

Example 2: A continue now reaches the end of the requested range.

* response status=success, bodylen=262
* response status=range-scan-complete (0xA7), bodylen=120

In this sequence <= 500 keys have been distributed over 2 different responses.
The status of range-scan-complete informs the client that the scan has now
completed. The server has closed the scan and any further continue will be
rejected.

Example 3: range scan progresses, but is stopped due to a system state change,
in this case the vbucket is no longer active. This example demonstrates that the
client must be aware that the sequence of continue responses could end with a
status indicating a terminal issue. For these situations the range-scan is
cancelled by the server.

* response status=success, bodylen=261
* response status=success, bodylen=259
* response status=not-my-vbucket (0xa6), bodylen=80

In this example < 500 keys have been spread over three responses, the final
response indicates that the target vbucket has changed state.

### Extras Definition

Each response packet includes an extras structure which contains a single 4-byte
"flags" field. This field currently describes the content of the value (keys or
key/meta/value). The field uses network byte order.

* 0 response has keys only (i.e. a `key_only:true` scan)
* 1 response has keys + meta + documents (i.e. a `key_only:false` scan)

### Response Value Encoding `"key_only":true`

The mcbp header defines how much data follows, in this command only a value is
transmitted (key and extras fields are both 0). The format of the value is a
sequence of length/key pairs. Each length is a varint (leb128) encoding of the
key length.

For example if 3 keys are returned in one response the value encodes the
following sequence (note the final key is 128 bytes long to demonstrate leb128
encoding, but not all 128 bytes of the key are shown.)

* length=4, "key0"
* length=5, "key11"
* length=128, "key2222...3"


```
     Byte/     0       |       1       |       2       |       3       |
        /              |               |               |               |
       |0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      0| 0x04          | 'k' 0x6B      | 'e' 0x65      | 'y' 0x79      |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      4| '0' 0x30      | 0x05          | 'k' 0x6B      | 'e' 0x65      |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      8| 'y' 0x79      | '1' 0x31      | '1' 0x31      | 0x80          |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     12| 0x01          | 'k' 0x6B      | 'e' 0x65      | 'y' 0x79      |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     16| '2' 0x32      | '2' 0x32      | '2' 0x32      | '2' 0x32      |
       +---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
       ...
       +---------------+
    140| '3' 0x33      |
       +---------------+
       Total 140bytes
```

### Response Value Encoding `"key_only":false`

The mcbp header defines how much data follows, in this command only a value is
transmitted (key and extras fields are both 0). The format of the value is a
sequence of documents. Each document has the following 3 parts.

* Fixed length metadata
* variable length key
* variable length value

The document encoding will prefix the variable length key and value each with
a varint (leb128).

For example if 2 documents are returned in one response.

* document1 {fixed meta}{varint, key}{varint, value}
* document2 {fixed meta}{varint, key}{varint, value}

The format of a single document is now described in more detail.

Fixed metadata (25 bytes)
* 32-bit flags
* 32-bit expiry
* 64-bit seqno
* 64-bit cas
* 8-bit datatype - Note the datatype is critical to interpreting the value,
  e.g. if datatype has the snappy bit set, the value is compressed.

E.g. a document with key="key0" and value="value0"

```
     Byte/     0       |       1       |       2       |       3       |
        /              |               |               |               |
       |0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      0| flags (network order)                                         |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      4| expiry (network order)                                        |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
      8| sequence number  (network order)                              |
       +                                                               +
     12|                                                               |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     16| cas (network order)                                           |
       +                                                               +
     20|                                                               |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     24| datatype      | 0x04          | 'k' 0x6B      | 'e' 0x65      |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     28| 'y' 0x79      | '0' 0x30      | 0x06          | 'v' 0xaa      |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     32| 'a' 0x79      | 'l' 0x30      | 'u' 0xaa      | 'e' 0xaa      |
       +---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
     36| '0' 0x30      | <next document>
       +---------------+---------------...
       Total 36bytes
```

In the above layout, a second document would begin at offset 37, no padding or
alignment.

### Success status codes

A range-scan-continue response sequence indicates success using the following
status codes.

**Status::Success 0x00**

Used for intermediate responses making up a larger response.

**Status::RangeScanMore 0xA6**

Scan has reached a limit and more data maybe available, the client must issue
another continue.

**Status::RangeScanComplete 0xA7**

Scan has reached the end of the range, the scan itself will be removed from the
server and any subsequent range-scan continue or cancel will be rejected.


### Errors

**Status::KeyEexists (0x01)**

No scan with the given uuid could be found.

**Status::Einval (0x04)**

The request failed an input validation check, details of which should be returned
in the response.

**Status::NotMyVbucket (0x07)**

The requested vbucket no longer exists on this node.

**Status::Eaccess (0x24)**

The user no longer has the required privilege for range-scans.

**Status::EBusy (0x85)**

The scan with the given uuid cannot be continued because it is already continuing.

**Status::UnknownCollection (0x88)**

The collection was dropped.

**Status::RangeScanCancelled (0xA5)**

The scan was cancelled whilst returning data.
